All right, so, so far we have lower that binding protein by doing low carb, no snacking, fasting, milk thistle. Then if we add berberine on top of that, now we're really going to see some nice cool changes. Now there's a couple of other things that they're going to happen when you start doing this. The gland, which is kind of in a, in a large state is going to start to shrink and reducing the oil that's in the gland to green tea, green tea actually handles every potential pathogenic cause of acne. I mean, it, it reduces inflammation. It actually is great as an antibacterial. It reduces the sebaceous gland directly as well as its oil. It also helps with insulin resistance and it makes insulin more sensitive so then it can help reduce insulin. So green tea is a very, very important remedy in acne as well. You can even probably get it as a cream and put it topically as well. And the last little remedy I would recommend is a zinc and copper. Sometimes you can just get it in a trace mineral blend, but zinc and copper a deficiency of zinc also a deficiency of copper can be one of the primary root causes of acne. You need both. In fact, you need zinc to help you absorb vitamin a, which is essential for your skin and also to prevent acne. But copper is involved in a very powerful antioxidant. Okay. It's called SOD and copper goes in there and cleans up all the oxidation that's occurring in the skin from all the inflammation and the oxidative stress. So copper is a very powerful antioxidant that can help reduce inflammation and it works with zinc. All right. And I have a few more points here. Don't pop your zits anymore. Okay. Just do this protocol. Don't over clean your skin. Don't scrub your skin. It's not the dirt. That's the problem. In fact, when you scrub your skin, you're going to get rid of all the good friendly bacteria that's there to protect you. And now you have this redness in your face. So don't over clean your skin. Also when you take a shower, get a filter to filter out fluoride. Fluoride is very, very irritating to the skin. Now it's not going to cause the type of acne that maybe you have right now, but it can keep your skin kind of red and irritated. So just get some filter to pull out that fluorine. That's just as a side note. It's not the main thing you should do, but it's one of the things that it's very important. The other thing to avoid is milk. Milk has a lot of hormones, including both androgens as well as estrogens. It's a growth hormone. So I would highly recommend you avoid dairy for a while. That right there might help you greatly. And then if you have the scars on your skin, get a real high quality vitamin E oil and rub it into the skin before you go to bed every night. And there's another great product for scarring that was very successful when I was in practice. It's called Dermatrophin PMG. It's a standard process product. And you just take one before bed for maybe six months if it's really bad or three months if it's a moderate problem. All right. So now you need the details of how to do the low carb and the no snacking. For that, I put a very simple playlist right here. Check it out, get started, and then come back to this video and report to me of your great success. 
