Let's talk about the fastest way to get rid of acne. If you have acne, you are going to be happy that you found this video. All it takes is the correct knowledge. Now, when I was, I think, seventh grade, eighth grade, I had severe acne. And talk about devastating someone's confidence. I mean, it's already hard enough to be a teenager, but to have acne on top of being an awkward teenager, devastating. Remember, I was in sixth grade, had no acne, right? I didn't even like girls. And then all of a sudden, in seventh grade, I started liking girls. But I had acne, and that persisted in eighth grade, ninth grade, tenth grade, eleventh grade. So it was, it can be very devastating. So I really wish I knew what I know now, back then, it would have came in handy. All I knew back then was to keep washing your face, using creams, even though it didn't work. And we just keep trying it over and over and over. Here's the big problem. If we actually do a search on acne, let's take something that's very credible, right? Wikipedia, right? I'm being very sarcastic. Let's see what Wikipedia says about acne here. Acne is a long-term skin condition that occurs when dead skin cells and oil from your skin clog your hair follicles. The resulting appearance can lead to anxiety, reduced self-esteem, and extreme cases, depression, or even thoughts of suicide. But check this out. Susceptibility to acne is primarily genetics in 80% of cases. Now notice that they said susceptibility to acne. They didn't say acne. That is because there's something way more powerful than your genetics. And that's called epigenetics, which I'm going to get into. It says the roles of diet and cigarette smoking in the condition are unclear and neither cleanliness nor exposure to sunlight appear to play a part. Eating fewer simple carbohydrates, such as sugar, may minimize the condition. Okay, so that's, at least they mentioned that. All right, and then they get into the causes. Possible secondary contributors include hormones, infections, diet, and stress. All right, and then we get to diet. It says high glycemic load diets have been found to have different degrees of effect on acne severity. So one of the studies that they mentioned, diet and acne update, carbohydrates emerge as the main culprit. Of course, they're not going to emphasize that. And then they go right into multiple randomized controlled trials and non-randomized studies have found a lower glycemic load diet to be effective in reducing acne. So the rest of this page is just more confusion, more information that doesn't really tell you or differentiate the important stuff from the trivial stuff to the stuff that's completely and utterly false. So no wonder why people have a hard time finding answers. So if we take a look at acne, what it is, we have an infection of a sebaceous gland. Okay, a sebaceous gland is the oil glands in your skin and so this is why you have redness, that's inflammation. You have many times a white pustule, which is an infection, which has bacteria and white blood cells. And you're looking at your acne going, wow, I need to pop that zit, right? And then clean it out and then it'll go away, but it never goes away, it comes back. It turns into a scar. Okay, now you have a pockmark and it keeps coming back. So what is behind this infection of the sebaceous gland? And the answer is a hormone called androgens. Your androgens are too high. I mean, think about what happens during puberty. You have this shift of androgens, right? Mostly in men, it's also a spike in girls as well. Okay, but they also have a spike in estrogen, which can also trigger acne as well. So is the problem just puberty and everyone has to go through it, or is there something we can do? Well, there's some extra data about androgens that I want to talk about that's going to help you isolate what's really going on. But I'm going to recommend that you stop popping your zits, okay? Because that's going to just create more of an infection. It's going to create more redness, more inflammation, and more scarring, okay? And it's very difficult to get rid of old scars. There's things you can do, but it's not the easiest thing in the world to do. And the scars just are more permanent, okay? So we don't want to pop the zits. We want to find the underlying cause. So what are all the things that can cause an increase in androgens? Well, there's a protein in your liver, okay? There's a certain protein. I don't want to give you the long name, but the acronym is SHBG, okay? This protein helps you bind both estrogen and testosterone. So if you have enough of this protein, it keeps these two hormones locked up and in the inactive form. Because if you have too much free estrogen and too much free testosterone, it can be very dangerous for various reasons. But you just don't want a lot of active testosterone and a lot of active estrogen floating around through your bloodstream. So the body tends to lock up about 99% of all of it, and only 1% to 2% of it is free. And so they found people that have bad acne have very low levels of this protein, okay? There's just not enough to bind it. So they're having more free testosterone. And then that excess androgen is going to then cause more enlargement of the sebaceous gland, more oil, more infection, more bacteria, et cetera. Now, the big question is, what causes low amounts of this protein to exist, okay? And the answer is, you ready for this? Are you sitting down? High insulin, okay? Or insulin resistance. That means high amounts of carbohydrates in your diet. As in teenagers consuming a lot of carbohydrates and sugar. In fact, an average teenager consumes the most carbohydrate of any point in their life, right at that point in the teenager years. So they're dumping so much carbohydrate into their system on top of an already existing high level of androgen. So it's just the perfect storm for developing acne. Now, a couple of other things that can do it, a fatty liver. The more fat you have on your liver, the less of that binding protein you're going to have, okay? Inflammation in the liver. And so, as you can see, the liver is really, really important in the regulation of these hormones. Now, a couple of other things can do it. If you have a low thyroid, which usually is caused by either a liver problem or high levels of estrogen, okay? Because the people don't usually have a primary thyroid problem. It's usually caused by something else and a fatty liver could do it or high levels of estrogen could do it. Also high cortisol as in stress can make things worse and increase more available testosterone, thereby triggering more of the acne. All right, so that's number one. And the solution is very, very simple. Stop eating the sugar and the carbs, okay? Get on a healthy keto plan. Stop snacking. That's a big one, especially for teenagers. And also start doing intermittent fasting. Those three things, it's going to be the common thread to this video, but very, very important. Milk thistle is a fantastic natural herb to help the liver rejuvenate, recover, as well as to normalize that protein. Not to mention it can help you remove fat from the liver as well. So milk thistle is a great thing for acne for these reasons. All right, number two, just high insulin in general, not having anything to do with the liver will then increase your androgens. I mean, take a look at a condition called polycystic ovarian syndrome, very common in women. What does that come from? High levels of insulin. They nearly always have high insulin resistance, which actually is going to allow the body to pump out more insulin. And if they can just cut down the carbs, okay, stop snacking and do intermittent fasting. Those three things, bam, the problem goes away. So if you have acne, you need to start to do that. A really good herb, and you can get this as a tea as well, is berberine. Berberine works very similar to metformin, okay? What is metformin? That's a medication for diabetes, and it works to help get in check insulin resistance. And the interesting thing is berberine is almost equivalent in function, but without the toxicity. There's side effects from medications. But if you look up the relationship between metformin and getting rid of acne, it's a great way to get rid of acne. But the problem is it's medication. So why can't we just use a natural form of metformin with less toxicity?
All right, so, so far we have lower that binding protein by doing low carb, no snacking, fasting, milk thistle. Then if we add berberine on top of that, now we're really going to see some nice cool changes. Now there's a couple of other things that they're going to happen when you start doing this. The gland, which is kind of in a, in a large state is going to start to shrink and reducing the oil that's in the gland to green tea, green tea actually handles every potential pathogenic cause of acne. I mean, it, it reduces inflammation. It actually is great as an antibacterial. It reduces the sebaceous gland directly as well as its oil. It also helps with insulin resistance and it makes insulin more sensitive so then it can help reduce insulin. So green tea is a very, very important remedy in acne as well. You can even probably get it as a cream and put it topically as well. And the last little remedy I would recommend is a zinc and copper. Sometimes you can just get it in a trace mineral blend, but zinc and copper a deficiency of zinc also a deficiency of copper can be one of the primary root causes of acne. You need both. In fact, you need zinc to help you absorb vitamin a, which is essential for your skin and also to prevent acne. But copper is involved in a very powerful antioxidant. Okay. It's called SOD and copper goes in there and cleans up all the oxidation that's occurring in the skin from all the inflammation and the oxidative stress. So copper is a very powerful antioxidant that can help reduce inflammation and it works with zinc. All right. And I have a few more points here. Don't pop your zits anymore. Okay. Just do this protocol. Don't over clean your skin. Don't scrub your skin. It's not the dirt. That's the problem. In fact, when you scrub your skin, you're going to get rid of all the good friendly bacteria that's there to protect you. And now you have this redness in your face. So don't over clean your skin. Also when you take a shower, get a filter to filter out fluoride. Fluoride is very, very irritating to the skin. Now it's not going to cause the type of acne that maybe you have right now, but it can keep your skin kind of red and irritated. So just get some filter to pull out that fluorine. That's just as a side note. It's not the main thing you should do, but it's one of the things that it's very important. The other thing to avoid is milk. Milk has a lot of hormones, including both androgens as well as estrogens. It's a growth hormone. So I would highly recommend you avoid dairy for a while. That right there might help you greatly. And then if you have the scars on your skin, get a real high quality vitamin E oil and rub it into the skin before you go to bed every night. And there's another great product for scarring that was very successful when I was in practice. It's called Dermatrophin PMG. It's a standard process product. And you just take one before bed for maybe six months if it's really bad or three months if it's a moderate problem. All right. So now you need the details of how to do the low carb and the no snacking. For that, I put a very simple playlist right here. Check it out, get started, and then come back to this video and report to me of your great success
Let's talk about the fastest way to get rid of acne. If you have acne, you are going to be happy that you found this video. All it takes is the correct knowledge. Now, when I was, I think, seventh grade, eighth grade, I had severe acne. And talk about devastating someone's confidence. I mean, it's already hard enough to be a teenager, but to have acne on top of being an awkward teenager, devastating. Remember, I was in sixth grade, had no acne, right? I didn't even like girls. And then all of a sudden, in seventh grade, I started liking girls. But I had acne, and that persisted in eighth grade, ninth grade, tenth grade, eleventh grade. So it was, it can be very devastating. So I really wish I knew what I know now, back then, it would have came in handy. All I knew back then was to keep washing your face, using creams, even though it didn't work. And we just keep trying it over and over and over. Here's the big problem. If we actually do a search on acne, let's take something that's very credible, right? Wikipedia, right? I'm being very sarcastic. Let's see what Wikipedia says about acne here. Acne is a long-term skin condition that occurs when dead skin cells and oil from your skin clog your hair follicles. The resulting appearance can lead to anxiety, reduced self-esteem, and extreme cases, depression, or even thoughts of suicide. But check this out. Susceptibility to acne is primarily genetics in 80% of cases. Now notice that they said susceptibility to acne. They didn't say acne. That is because there's something way more powerful than your genetics. And that's called epigenetics, which I'm going to get into. It says the roles of diet and cigarette smoking in the condition are unclear and neither cleanliness nor exposure to sunlight appear to play a part. Eating fewer simple carbohydrates, such as sugar, may minimize the condition. Okay, so that's, at least they mentioned that. All right, and then they get into the causes. Possible secondary contributors include hormones, infections, diet, and stress. All right, and then we get to diet. It says high glycemic load diets have been found to have different degrees of effect on acne severity. So one of the studies that they mentioned, diet and acne update, carbohydrates emerge as the main culprit. Of course, they're not going to emphasize that. And then they go right into multiple randomized controlled trials and non-randomized studies have found a lower glycemic load diet to be effective in reducing acne. So the rest of this page is just more confusion, more information that doesn't really tell you or differentiate the important stuff from the trivial stuff to the stuff that's completely and utterly false. So no wonder why people have a hard time finding answers. So if we take a look at acne, what it is, we have an infection of a sebaceous gland. Okay, a sebaceous gland is the oil glands in your skin and so this is why you have redness, that's inflammation. You have many times a white pustule, which is an infection, which has bacteria and white blood cells. And you're looking at your acne going, wow, I need to pop that zit, right? And then clean it out and then it'll go away, but it never goes away, it comes back. It turns into a scar. Okay, now you have a pockmark and it keeps coming back. So what is behind this infection of the sebaceous gland? And the answer is a hormone called androgens. Your androgens are too high. I mean, think about what happens during puberty. You have this shift of androgens, right? Mostly in men, it's also a spike in girls as well. Okay, but they also have a spike in estrogen, which can also trigger acne as well. So is the problem just puberty and everyone has to go through it, or is there something we can do? Well, there's some extra data about androgens that I want to talk about that's going to help you isolate what's really going on. But I'm going to recommend that you stop popping your zits, okay? Because that's going to just create more of an infection. It's going to create more redness, more inflammation, and more scarring, okay? And it's very difficult to get rid of old scars. There's things you can do, but it's not the easiest thing in the world to do. And the scars just are more permanent, okay? So we don't want to pop the zits. We want to find the underlying cause. So what are all the things that can cause an increase in androgens? Well, there's a protein in your liver, okay? There's a certain protein. I don't want to give you the long name, but the acronym is SHBG, okay? This protein helps you bind both estrogen and testosterone. So if you have enough of this protein, it keeps these two hormones locked up and in the inactive form. Because if you have too much free estrogen and too much free testosterone, it can be very dangerous for various reasons. But you just don't want a lot of active testosterone and a lot of active estrogen floating around through your bloodstream. So the body tends to lock up about 99% of all of it, and only 1% to 2% of it is free. And so they found people that have bad acne have very low levels of this protein, okay? There's just not enough to bind it. So they're having more free testosterone. And then that excess androgen is going to then cause more enlargement of the sebaceous gland, more oil, more infection, more bacteria, et cetera. Now, the big question is, what causes low amounts of this protein to exist, okay? And the answer is, you ready for this? Are you sitting down? High insulin, okay? Or insulin resistance. That means high amounts of carbohydrates in your diet. As in teenagers consuming a lot of carbohydrates and sugar. In fact, an average teenager consumes the most carbohydrate of any point in their life, right at that point in the teenager years. So they're dumping so much carbohydrate into their system on top of an already existing high level of androgen. So it's just the perfect storm for developing acne. Now, a couple of other things that can do it, a fatty liver. The more fat you have on your liver, the less of that binding protein you're going to have, okay? Inflammation in the liver. And so, as you can see, the liver is really, really important in the regulation of these hormones. Now, a couple of other things can do it. If you have a low thyroid, which usually is caused by either a liver problem or high levels of estrogen, okay? Because the people don't usually have a primary thyroid problem. It's usually caused by something else and a fatty liver could do it or high levels of estrogen could do it. Also high cortisol as in stress can make things worse and increase more available testosterone, thereby triggering more of the acne. All right, so that's number one. And the solution is very, very simple. Stop eating the sugar and the carbs, okay? Get on a healthy keto plan. Stop snacking. That's a big one, especially for teenagers. And also start doing intermittent fasting. Those three things, it's going to be the common thread to this video, but very, very important. Milk thistle is a fantastic natural herb to help the liver rejuvenate, recover, as well as to normalize that protein. Not to mention it can help you remove fat from the liver as well. So milk thistle is a great thing for acne for these reasons. All right, number two, just high insulin in general, not having anything to do with the liver will then increase your androgens. I mean, take a look at a condition called polycystic ovarian syndrome, very common in women. What does that come from? High levels of insulin. They nearly always have high insulin resistance, which actually is going to allow the body to pump out more insulin. And if they can just cut down the carbs, okay, stop snacking and do intermittent fasting. Those three things, bam, the problem goes away. So if you have acne, you need to start to do that. A really good herb, and you can get this as a tea as well, is berberine. Berberine works very similar to metformin, okay? What is metformin? That's a medication for diabetes, and it works to help get in check insulin resistance. And the interesting thing is berberine is almost equivalent in function, but without the toxicity. There's side effects from medications. But if you look up the relationship between metformin and getting rid of acne, it's a great way to get rid of acne. But the problem is it's medication. So why can't we just use a natural form of metformin with less toxicity?All right, so, so far we have lower that binding protein by doing low carb, no snacking, fasting, milk thistle. Then if we add berberine on top of that, now we're really going to see some nice cool changes. Now there's a couple of other things that they're going to happen when you start doing this. The gland, which is kind of in a, in a large state is going to start to shrink and reducing the oil that's in the gland to green tea, green tea actually handles every potential pathogenic cause of acne. I mean, it, it reduces inflammation. It actually is great as an antibacterial. It reduces the sebaceous gland directly as well as its oil. It also helps with insulin resistance and it makes insulin more sensitive so then it can help reduce insulin. So green tea is a very, very important remedy in acne as well. You can even probably get it as a cream and put it topically as well. And the last little remedy I would recommend is a zinc and copper. Sometimes you can just get it in a trace mineral blend, but zinc and copper a deficiency of zinc also a deficiency of copper can be one of the primary root causes of acne. You need both. In fact, you need zinc to help you absorb vitamin a, which is essential for your skin and also to prevent acne. But copper is involved in a very powerful antioxidant. Okay. It's called SOD and copper goes in there and cleans up all the oxidation that's occurring in the skin from all the inflammation and the oxidative stress. So copper is a very powerful antioxidant that can help reduce inflammation and it works with zinc. All right. And I have a few more points here. Don't pop your zits anymore. Okay. Just do this protocol. Don't over clean your skin. Don't scrub your skin. It's not the dirt. That's the problem. In fact, when you scrub your skin, you're going to get rid of all the good friendly bacteria that's there to protect you. And now you have this redness in your face. So don't over clean your skin. Also when you take a shower, get a filter to filter out fluoride. Fluoride is very, very irritating to the skin. Now it's not going to cause the type of acne that maybe you have right now, but it can keep your skin kind of red and irritated. So just get some filter to pull out that fluorine. That's just as a side note. It's not the main thing you should do, but it's one of the things that it's very important. The other thing to avoid is milk. Milk has a lot of hormones, including both androgens as well as estrogens. It's a growth hormone. So I would highly recommend you avoid dairy for a while. That right there might help you greatly. And then if you have the scars on your skin, get a real high quality vitamin E oil and rub it into the skin before you go to bed every night. And there's another great product for scarring that was very successful when I was in practice. It's called Dermatrophin PMG. It's a standard process product. And you just take one before bed for maybe six months if it's really bad or three months if it's a moderate problem. All right. So now you need the details of how to do the low carb and the no snacking. For that, I put a very simple playlist right here. Check it out, get started, and then come back to this video and report to me of your great success.