on the calendar, I would say that April 15 is maybe a day to watch Twitter to see what happens. Why? Because that's the date that all of the algorithmic feed is only going to be populated by accounts with blue checkmarks who pay for those blue checkmarks. You have to pay by April 1. Yes. Or else lose your free checkmark. And then on the 15th, this is according to, what's his name again? The guy who keeps something like that. Fleetwood Tusk? Yeah, the guy who keeps tweeting about Twitter. I think he owns it now or something. He does own it, yes. Yeah, yeah. He's a, yeah. Anyway, he said the 15th is when things change over to the For You feed. That's the date where you will only see tweets in the For You feed that are from verified accounts. And verified accounts will only, at that point, be paid verified accounts. OK. But then he had an also. He said, like, also, and then said something about how you will still be able to see the people you follow because you've chosen to follow them. Yes. But that's in the Follow feed. Yes. But do we think those two feeds will continue to coexist? I don't think so. I think sooner or later, the big hammer is going to come down, which is that Twitter just goes straight algo. And there's no more option to see reverse chronological feed, which is what it was built on and why everybody still likes it. And when that happens, then the world will end. And you need to. You need to. That is not hyperbolic. You need to plant your flag on the new world now. Which you think is mastodon. I do. I think it has promise. This feels like it is the beginning of the end of an era. Absolutely. Yeah. We've all been writing a type of eulogy for Twitter for months now. It feels real this time. I didn't want to believe it. Right? I was like, oh, it's going to be fine. It's going to be weird, but it's going to be fine. It's just going to be the same. But it's now not going to be the same. I know. It feels like we're in the stage of a breakup where you have acknowledged that the breakup has happened. You've moved on to someone else. But you're still in conversation. You're still just like, man, I got to vent about that past relationship. It still feels that way. We're not fully moved on. No. No. Mastodon. That's my rack. Yeah. What's yours? Gadget Lab, brought to you by Mastodon. Brought to you by an open source nonprofit. Yeah, decentralized. Communo anarchist. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Wired is going back to the future. Yeah, we're going back to the- We're zooming into the past. We're going back to 1890s Russia right now, where we have all these different communist factions. Anyway. Or just the early days of Wired. This is not a pirate ship. Yeah. What's your recommendation? My recommendation, I made the almond milk. Oh, you did? I did. So a few weeks ago on the show, our diehard fans will remember that I said I was going to buy a nut bag. I enjoyed saying that. A nut bag. A nut milk bag that Mike had recommended. So it was a recommendation baked into a recommendation. That I was going to buy a nut milk bag, and then I was going to start making my own almond milk. And it took me a few weeks to know I've not been soaking the almonds this whole time. Took me a few weeks to just get everything assembled. And I did it this week. The nut bag recommendation you made was great. It was really easy to do. I over salted it slightly. Did you? Yes, my recommendation is don't over salt it. You said a pinch of salt. And I think I did a few pinches. And also I was using large grain salt. OK. It was just a bit much. When did you put the salt in? I put a pinch in when I was soaking the almonds, and then again in the mixture after I had blended it. Ah. What was I not supposed to do? Well, I think you double salted it. Well, yeah. I always soak the nuts, drain them, put them in the blender, put fresh water in, and then add salt at that point. Oh. Yeah, I probably needed more water in there too. Maybe. Yeah. But anyway, I'm going to keep doing this. Nice. I'm going to keep iterating. I'm going to pivot. I'm probably going to seek some venture capital funding at some point. Launch my own company called Good Milk. It's going to be great. GoodMilk.social? Yes, GoodMilk.social. It's going to be huge. And I'm going to own all the rights to it. Well, how was the milk? Aside from being a little bit salty, did it turn out OK? Was it? Yeah, what I had to do was I still had leftover almond milk in a bottle that I had purchased. And so I just cut it down a little bit with the store-bought almond milk to try to cut the salt content. But otherwise, it was great. I totally see myself doing this on a regular basis. Good. It's only getting better. I can tell you that I started making nut milk. And the first four or five batches, I was like, why am I going through all this trouble? The stuff I buy from the store is better. But after you get it dialed in, and you get a little system going, and you find a recipe that really works, then it's great. Same thing with when I started making kimchi. The whole first year I was making kimchi, it was coming out OK. Now it's like la bomba. You've got it dialed in. It's perfect. Yeah, so it's just those weird kitchen experiments. You just got to keep experimenting. Yeah, yeah. I'm definitely, at some point, I'm going to be seeking some additional financing for this. This is great. I want to invest. I want to buy a good coin. Yeah, buy some, yes, good coins. Because selling milk isn't enough tea. Just kidding. On the nut chain. Oh, no. All right, I think it's time to wrap this show. Mike, thank you so much for strolling down the sidewalk with me. Sure, it was a pleasure. Yeah, and thanks to all of you for listening. If you have feedback, you can find all of us on Twitter. Just check the show notes. Also, we love hearing from you in our podcast reviews. So tell us what you like about the show. And if there's something you don't like about the show, well, you can complain to our excellent producer, Boone Ashworth. Goodbye for now. We'll be back next week. We'll be back next week. Bye-bye. 
