And bandwidth is very low. It's capped at 80 kbps, which is about a 20th of what you need to stream a video. So it's very low bandwidth. It's enough to send a notification. It's almost enough to send an email quickly. But for these little packets of data, like, hey, I'm here, or just reporting a status, which is mostly what sidewalk devices are doing, it's very, very low bandwidth. So most of the devices aren't going to be using that full 80 kbps. Also, if you are in a household and you have all of your devices enrolled in Sidewalk, the system is only allowed to use 500 megabytes a month of your bandwidth, of your total bandwidth. So for people who maybe pay by the megabyte or pay by the gigabyte, they don't really have as much to worry about because 500 gigabytes over a month is, like, highly unlikely, given how low bandwidth these devices are, and the amount of Wi-Fi that somebody can probably not notice if somebody else is using. You know what I mean? Yeah, despite the fact that it's very low bandwidth, I have to imagine that traditional ISPs don't love this. I'm not sure how the ISPs feel about it, because I didn't, like, interview any ISPs, but I did interview a lot of regular old citizens who have Wi-Fi networks, and they were all shocked and appalled when I told them what was going on. Let's take a quick break, and when we come back, we'll talk more about that. One of the things that you've discovered as you've been using Amazon Sidewalk, Mike, is that Amazon customers are a part of this relatively new smart home Wi-Fi network by default, and a lot of them don't know that. Tell me about this. Okay, this is tricky, so I'm going to do my best here. Stay with me. Amazon first started talking about Sidewalk a few years ago, and then in June 2021, they turned it on, right? When they turned it on, they activated all of this beaming of Wi-Fi out into the world on Echo speakers, Echo smart home objects, right, the branded Echo, and some Ring devices, so Ring devices that are wired, Ring devices that have a camera, because those are the ones that are a little bit more high bandwidth, right? Enabled all of those by default, so all of a sudden, when it turned it on, boom, here's a nationwide network being powered by everybody's stuff. Wired wrote a story about this. Every outlet wrote a story about this. If you go online and you search Amazon Sidewalk and you go to the news results, you'll see a bunch of stories about Amazon is turning on Sidewalk, and then those same publications will also have a second story that says how to disable Amazon Sidewalk, right? So it was obviously a concern because Amazon did put out a white paper about its security measures that it's taking, and it is taking pretty good security measures. However, the whole idea of this company selling you a bunch of stuff that you buy and put in your house and then turning it on so that they can use you to help grow their business without really communicating well what was happening and why it was happening and when it was happening and what exactly was going on, that was a problem, right? We dinged them for that. A lot of people dinged them for that. So after it launched, Amazon was like, okay, we're going to make it opt out, and we're going to make it easier to see the opt out message. So now, let's say last year, in 2022, if you went out and bought a new Echo speaker and you brought it home and you downloaded the Alexa app and you set it up, then you would see a screen that says, would you like to participate in Amazon Sidewalk? And you can move that slider, right? So that is a relatively new thing. However, there are still countless millions of devices out there that are older than that change and that people haven't really futzed with the settings on since they bought it and set it up who are now participating in Sidewalk. So I'm walking around all week with this little blinking thing, and people see it. All my friends and some strangers ask me, what's that little blinking thing? And I'd say, oh, it's a beacon that's testing for Amazon Sidewalk signal. And they're like, what is that? And I tell them about it, and their eyes get big. They're like, excuse me? What do I need to do? What setting do I need to change? So I tell them, just search how to disable Amazon Sidewalk if this bothers you. But literally nobody that I spoke to knew that this was even a thing. Nobody. Probably 20 people. Not one of them was like, oh, yeah, I've totally heard of that. And I opted in, and it's great. Now again, you probably don't really need to worry about it. But if it makes you nervous or it makes you uncomfortable in any way, then you should go opt out and stop sharing your internet bandwidth with this army of devices out there. And you do that by going into the Alexa app, the Ring app. Any other ways you can do that? Yeah. So this is also a little bit sneaky. I'm not sure how I feel about this. But Amazon does make it relatively easy to disenroll, but it's not the same experience based on how you manage your settings. So you can go into your Amazon account on the web and disable Sidewalk there. When you do that, it disables it for all of your Sidewalk compatible devices associated with your account. If you go into the Alexa app on your phone, you can disable Sidewalk, and it will again disable everything on your account. So it's not device by device. It's not like I want this one to participate, but I don't want these two or three to participate. However, if you're a Ring person and you go into your Ring app, and that's where you manage your settings and you disable your Ring devices from Sidewalk, as far as I can tell, it does not change the enrollment of your Amazon Echo devices or any other devices. I should also mention that Tile was an early partner. So if you have a Tile, like the little things that you put on your key chain so that you can always find your keys whenever you lose them if you lose your keys all the time. I never do that. I bought Lauren an AirTag for Christmas. Oh, me too. If you have a Tile device, then you are also enrolled. And we should also mention that this is also the way that Find My works, speaking of AirTags, right? Apple's system for finding lost iPhones, lost AirPods, lost AirTags, uses all of the other Apple devices that are out there in the world. And that's also an opt-out experience that they enable by default. Well, I don't think I realized that Find My was totally by default. Yeah. When it was announced, Apple pushed it out in a software update. So it was like an iOS, iPadOS update. And that update enabled it on devices that installed the software. And then also if you bought a new device after that, during the setup process, it tells you about Find My and gives you the option to turn it off. But it's like it's on. One last thing about this, if you buy an Echo speaker and you bring it home and you have other Echo speakers and you set it up and you do like the easy thing, which is just getting it on your network and just getting Alexa to respond, you're still enrolled in Sidewalk if you have not opted out for all of the devices associated with your account. It's only if you go through the full setup process in the Alexa app that you're given the option to turn it on or turn it off. So yeah, there are a lot of devices out there. As evidenced by the 90% of the United States that's covered, there are a lot of devices out there that are on and people don't know about it. And I don't really want to say whether that's a good thing or a bad thing because it's such a personal choice about how you feel about Amazon using your internet connectivity to build this network. It doesn't really bother me, but I'm sure it bothers a lot of people. I want to ask you about that. But first, is Amazon collecting any data about how you use Sidewalk? I'm sure they're watching who's using the network and how it's being used. Who as in a person whose imagery is captured by a ring camera? Yeah. To be clear, that stuff is all discreet. So if you're making requests to your Alexa speaker and you're using your ring camera to monitor a video feed from your front porch, those things are all happening on your own private network and that stuff's not going out over Sidewalk. But don't our ISPs collect data? The people who traditionally provide us with our internet, they do collect data about how we are using the internet. If your device is connected to Amazon Sidewalk and you're using that device, like your ring camera is capturing something or someone presses the doorbell and the doorbell is connected or you make a voice query, wouldn't the ISP in that relationship be Amazon in this case? And what are they doing with that information? So they say that they are encrypting all of the transmissions over Sidewalk because really what's happening is devices are basically piggybacking on each other's signal to talk to a web service in the cloud. It could be AWS. It may not be Amazon Web Services. You're not required to use AWS if you want to build a gadget that works on Sidewalk. But the important thing is that you're not using AWS. You're not using Amazon Web Services. 
