distinction is that the devices are not talking directly to each other. It's not a mesh network. So my Alexa speaker is not going to your ring camera and saying, hi, I'm an Alexa speaker. I need to talk to Alexa. And your ring camera is going, OK, here you go. It's like a dumb pipe. So it's using a little slice of the bandwidth that the device is making available, just like all the other devices around it are using that same slice of bandwidth. So it's easy to encrypt a piece of data and send it across that network because the waypoints don't really have to interact with it. They just pass it along to its destination. Also, Amazon has said in their white paper and in all of their public announcements about this that the company is keeping use of metadata to an absolute minimum and then includes metadata that is useless to somebody who's trying to snoop on your activity and metadata that gives a hint about what the activity is or your location or any personal identifying information. So we have to take the company's word on that. And anybody who's interested in the white paper, I link to it in the article. We can link to it in the show notes. If you're a network nerd, it's kind of fascinating to read something like this because it really it's like a whole new kind of interaction on a public network. People came to the podcast to hear you talk about it, Mike. I'll just say 900 megahertz over and over again. Low-rah. Yes, we can definitely link you to the white paper. How do you feel about this? So I, first of all, I'm impressed. I'm impressed not only that the network is as strong as it is everywhere, but also I'm impressed that Amazon managed to do this under everybody's noses. And that's not really what happened, but that's just how it happened. Like Amazon went on stage at a hardware event and said, we're building this vast network. We're using people's ring cameras. We're using echo speakers to do it. Check it out, everybody. This is going to be amazing. It's going to make the smart home much more robust. It's going to make device connectivity worries a thing of the past. It's going to make everybody's connected life easier and everybody went, oh, cool. And then they did it. And now you see how successful it was and you're like, oh, shit. Wow. They really just turned on everybody's speaker and turned it into an endpoint, everybody's ring doorbell. So that's, I'm impressed in sort of like an evil overlord way, but also just from a technical standpoint. The other thing about it is I really did not know how big of a surveillance state I live in until I did this test and looked to see how many people had like hardwired ring cameras in their doorways. And in my neighborhood, it's like every other house, about 60% of the doors that I counted had some sort of camera on it. And like, you know, we think about that. We write about ring cameras all the time. We write about security cameras. We're always talking about face recognition and all of these technologies that are going on. But doing this test really forced me to like do a survey to see where all the signal is coming from. And I was just like shocked that there are so many cameras. Why did that surprise you? I just really hadn't done the thing where you walk around and you count them. I'm aware of them. I know they're out there. It's just, I hadn't really realized how many there were and how pervasive they are and how you are absolutely always on camera when you're walking around the city of San Francisco. That was like a bit shocking. Now, granted, that's been happening a long time and it doesn't really change my feeling about security cameras because I made a decision a long time ago that I don't want one. But it did really change my idea about how people use technology to interact with the world around them. The fact that they are taking precautions of setting up a security camera and pointing it out into the world so that they can protect themselves. And yet that camera, probably unbeknownst to them, is also sharing their internet connection out into the world and they didn't even know it was happening. So when you say that you're impressed, it's like, are you impressed? Like you're the thinking emoji with like one eyebrow raised. In the monocle. Yeah. Like what are exactly are you doing here? Are you impressed in that you think that this is generally a positive thing, that this is the future of always on low bandwidth Wi-Fi and that maybe it's a good thing in the instance of an emergency? Well, I think that it is going to be useful for a lot of people, right? Particularly people who live maybe outside of the city grid that we're on. Because if you have a ranch and you want to set up sensors all around your ranch. I have been wanting to set up sensors on my ranch. Right? Yeah. It's important. I just haven't gotten around to it. Okay. Let me put this into terms that might be a little bit more relevant to you. I'm getting the barn renovated right now. So continue. All right. So let's say you have a giant yacht and you want to have sensors all over your yacht. Yeah. I sold that. Misclimate. My God. Can you check the stock market? Please continue. Whatever your situation is, you don't really need to worry about Wi-Fi anymore, other than the places where you actually hang out. Right? The places that are sort of farther away on your property or the places that, like we were saying earlier, on your roof, on your basement, in your backyard. You don't really have to worry about putting a router somewhere so that device can see the internet. Now, your Amazon stuff or anything else that is going to come out over the next couple of years that uses Sidewalk can take care of that connectivity problem for you. So in the end, it's going to make life easier for people, right? Things are going to get cheaper and easier for people who are into that. The other side of it is that it's not really going to change my life right away. If anything, it really just sort of exposed how pervasive Amazon is and how pervasive these technologies are. And they're all happening in the background and we're not really thinking about them. That's very Amazon. It is, isn't it? The company has a long track record of just putting... This is the same company that convinced millions of Americans to put a microphone in their home. Yep. And convinced us all that we need two-day shipping. Yes. And was actually really good at it and made it really easy. Yes. Made one-click shopping and checking out with your palm even super easy. Yes. So weird. When you go to the grocery store, you can buy your coconut water just by putting your palm on a piece of glass. And you hear the cackle of Jeff Bezos in the background. In between reps because he's working out. So it's going to make life easier for people, but it's definitely going to make business better for Amazon. Because now there is this potentially army of new devices from other companies coming out that have a chip in it that makes them reliant on Amazon's network being healthy and staying active and being a thing that they can use in the world. Right? Mike, this is such a good story. I'm going to encourage all of our listeners to go check it out on wired.com this week. Let's take another quick break and then come back and do our weekly recommendations. My favorite part. Mike. Lauren. What's your recommendation this week? Mastodon. Mastodon. We're back on this horse. We are. Yeah. We're back on this mammoth. It's getting weird on Twitter. It's getting weird on Twitter. There's all of this like hand wringing about blue check marks and they're no longer just for celebrities. And yet, we've seen evidence that hate speech is rising on Twitter and we've seen evidence that harassment is rising on Twitter. And I also have a Mastodon account and I've been checking in more often on Mastodon and there's a lot of people saying like, I don't understand why people are still posting on Twitter. So like the rift is growing. I thought I could double post for a long time. And really it just comes down to like where I am. If I'm working and I have browser tabs open on my computer, I'm on Twitter. If I'm just on my phone, I'm on Mastodon. And so I've been enjoying my time more and more on Mastodon as I'm connecting with more people. You and I finally followed each other after however many months, six months. And it's the community is growing. And like I'm bringing this up because I'm sure a lot of other people feel the same way. Right. Like Twitter. We've all been on Twitter for forever, 10, 15 years for a lot of people that we know. And it feels like home and it feels like a community and that community feels vibrant and alive. Mastodon feels kind of small and like a little bit tumbleweedy. But remember how Twitter felt when Twitter started. It was also pretty lively, but it also felt a little bit tumbleweedy. Right. The whole idea is like, I don't want to sign up for Twitter. Yeah. I thought it was a place where people wrote about what they were having for lunch. Yeah. It was mundane. Yeah. Eating a bagel, please RT. Right. And like Mastodon kind of had those vibes for a while, but it's growing. So I'm just like, I'm not going to point to a specific date on the calendar. If I was going to point to a specific date on the calendar. 
