Hello, welcome to a bonus episode of New Scientist Weekly. I'm Rowan Hooper. On today's show we're presenting a guide on how to think about some of the most important and mind-bending concepts in science, from artificial intelligence to mental health, from nutrition to virtual particles. And it all comes from a special how to think about issue of New Scientist that's out now. We're going to give you a flavour of some of the things it covers and we'll put links in the show notes if you want to find out more. And you can of course buy the physical magazine for the full experience. To talk through this we've recruited some of the features team who've put this together. Dan Cousins, Kat Delonge, Abbey Beale and Claire Wilson, thanks for joining us. Hello. Dan, let's start with you, Head of Features, can you give us an overview of this special issue? How did it come about? We've got 13 different concepts in it, you know, take us through it a bit. Well, the truth is that this is not the first time we've done a special like this. Every few years we just take 13 really interesting concepts and throw the kitchen sink at them basically. So the idea is that we do a sort of concise and really clear-eyed guide to 13 ideas, some of which are, as you say, mind-bending in the sense that they're really difficult to get your head around. That might be something like symmetry in physics or wormholes or, as you say, virtual particles. Others are actually quite familiar and everyday, but when you're on closer inspection are actually much more complicated and rich than you might like to think. So these are kind of the sorts of things that we often mention in passing in stories and I focus generally on physics. So for instance, we often mention symmetry, but symmetry is just one word, but actually within that there's so much depth. So it's a chance to really explore what symmetry is in physics and maths. And the same goes for something like calories. Calories is a word we use all the time, something we're very familiar with, but actually when you really dig deeper, calories, there's a lot more to it, because it comes down to metabolism and the way our body burns fuel. So the idea ultimately is that we can get some of these really interesting and stimulating ideas by asking the experts how they think about them. These people who are the professionals, this is their job to think about these concepts day in and day out. So how do they think about them? And oftentimes when you speak to them, you'll find that they will disavow you of a lot of misconceptions and hopefully they'll really enlighten you and you'll feel like you understand these concepts a lot better than you did when you started. So we've picked these 13 things. We're not going to go through them all now, but let's dip into some of them because as you say, we distill down what the experts thinking about this. So what about consciousness? Because that's something we cover a lot. Caroline Williams has done that for us. And what aspect is she touching on in this? Well, Caroline is exploring the mind-body connection. So in the search for the roots of consciousness, how do the physical constituents of the brain give rise to our subjective experience of the world? That's obviously a massive mystery. And you might think, well, obviously you want to look at the brain, that's where you should look. But actually increasingly it's coming to light that you should also be looking at the body in terms of... And there's a sense called interoception, which is how you sort of interpret the signals from your body. And increasingly consciousness researchers are realising, correct me if I'm wrong, Kat, that these signals are actually really crucial to understanding consciousness. Yeah. So these are signals that are coming from your internal organs, like maybe your heart or your gut and creating essentially your sense of self because your brain is constantly keeping track of these things without us ever realising it. And so the idea is that your sense of self and your sense of consciousness is being built from the body up into the brain rather than being built in the brain and then kind of sent to you somehow. And it just so happens that Caroline's written a book all about... Well, that touches on a lot of this called Move, which is a fantastic book. One of the things I found fascinating about the collection of things that we cover is that there are things that are mind-bending like quantum gravity. But as you say, Dan, the things that we cover that are really... You think at first are really familiar, like nutrition and like calories. Kat, you've done the piece on calories. Can you take us through that? What's weird about them? Yeah. So this is something that I kind of started to look into and I was really surprised by how counterintuitive it is because when I was a teenager, like in the 90s, I could probably tell you how many calories there were in every food that you had in your house. And because the idea of the calorie really lies at the heart of all of our nutrition advice and our weight loss or weight gain, depending what you're trying to do, is thought to come down to the calorie. If you consume more calories than you expend, then you will put on weight and vice versa. But actually, when you start to dig into it, it's much more complicated than that. So the calorie is a measure of energy, essentially. But when you look at the food that you're eating, you can put a number to it. And these numbers are derived from old experiments where basically you can just burn food and see how much energy comes out. But the body is not just a furnace. You can't just put things in it and measure the heat that comes out like you can in these experiments. And when you start to eat real food in real life, it's very different. So for example, take a stick of celery. There's about six calories in a stick of celery. We always hear that if you eat, it takes more energy to eat a stick of celery than you get from it. Is that true? Well, that's how I sort of came to find this out because I was like, I want to get to the bottom of this question. Is celery a negative calorie food? Well, it depends how you eat it, right? Because if you have a stick of celery, there's about six calories in it. If you cook that stick of celery, it will give you 30 calories. If you cook it in lard. No, because cooking is basically an extension of the digestive process. So you're sort of pre-digesting your food and then it's just making more of it available to you. So that's just one example. But also, you can eat a certain number of calories a day or two people can eat a certain number of calories a day and it can have a massively different effect on how much weight they put on. People are different. And all of these experiments were done on sort of very small controlled ways and then generalized out to the whole population. And what we're seeing now is that that just doesn't actually make any sense in the real world. If you eat an orange, for example, as orange juice, it's going to be very different for you than if you eat a whole orange with all of the, you know, not the skin. With all of the peel on it. No, OK. All right. So this tells us a new way to think about calories or a modern way to think about calories. And we probably have been trapped into old ways of thinking about it. Well, let's go to something a bit more conventionally weird as we think of in New Scientist, virtual particles. Abbey, are these even real? I mean, OK, there is a clue in the name, but what are they? Yeah. So the question of whether they're real or not depends, I think, on who you ask. So I spoke to four researchers for the story and they would, I think, all say that they're probably not real. What they are instead is like a mathematical tool that we can use to describe reality. So to kind of answer what they are, we have to talk first about particles and what they are. So you might think about a particle as like a tiny point of matter. I think a lot of people do. But physicists and quantum mechanics, you talk about particles mathematically as ripples in quantum fields. So the idea is that there are all these quantum fields and each one relates to a particle. So the photon field relates to the photon and so on. So a photon is a ripple in the photon field. And what that means is they're ripples that are permanent. If you just left them there, they might move around, but they wouldn't disappear. They can be, if two particles interact together, they can create new ripples which do disappear. These are temporary ripples and those are virtual particles. And they can also be created when fields themselves interact with each other. Okay. But they're really central to, they're at the basis of all the, our understanding of physics, of all the physics, right? But we don't really know what they are and they probably don't even exist. Well, they're at the basis of the mathematics that we use to describe quantum mechanics. So in the 1960s, there was a physicist called Richard Feynman, who up until that point, all we'd been doing to work out how fundamental particles interact was just lots and lots of maths. But what he did was invent these diagrams called Feynman diagrams, which you might have seen, they sometimes have squiggly lines or straight lines and each particle has its own little line and you can describe interactions in a much simpler way than using them. And what he introduced through inventing Feynman diagrams was virtual particles, which are lines within the diagram. So they don't go anywhere. They don't come in or go out. Okay. I think for the sake of my head, I'm going to leave it there, but there's more in the special issue on that. Claire, so mental health, right? We talk about it a lot more these days, which is great, but what is the latest on it? What have you been looking at in this issue? Okay. Well, I hope you're not getting too comfortable about mental health compared with virtual particles, because I'm afraid in this piece, we look at the fact that most of what we thought we knew about mental health has recently turned out to be wrong. I mean, we used to think that mental health problems were caused by, we had quite a simplistic view that mental health problems were caused by too high or too low levels of certain brain chemicals, the so-called chemical imbalance theory. So the classic case is depression was supposed to be caused by low serotonin or schizophrenia was thought to be caused by too much activity of dopamine networks. And now it looks like that is wrong. So our understanding of genetics of mental health is wrong.was also far too simplistic. There's never just one gene that predisposes us to a certain condition like depression. There are more than a hundred genes that have been identified so far that each has a tiny influence on our mental health. So that's just a couple of ways that we are kind of rethinking the old simplistic ways of looking at it. And it does make sense. You know, we are now starting to see mental health conditions not as a kind of either or state, black or white, you either have depression or you don't, but it is more like a spectrum with perhaps all of us on it somewhere. Isn't there also an idea that there's a lot of overlap between different mental health conditions and actually we can't really just categorise them so easily and everything's much more sort of mixed and murky? Yeah, that's a really good point. And it's, that's also been the genetics of mental health that has pointed us more in that direction, as you say, because those same genes that those same, maybe over a hundred genes that predispose you to depression also predispose you to other conditions like schizophrenia, bipolar disorder or anxiety. So as you say, what we've previously thought of as completely different conditions, they might all have a kind of common underlying cause in the brain. And if that is true, I think that does, you know, require a kind of a complete rethink about mental health and mental illness. Wow, that's massive, isn't it? Great. There's more in the special issue on that. So what have we done? We've done consciousness, virtual particles, mental health, calories. As I say, there's 13 things that we talk about in here. Another one that jumped out at me was emergence. Dan, do you want to take us through this one? Yeah, I think this is another one of these, not quite a weasel word, but a word that we use that you sort of think, oh, I have an understanding of what that is, but when you look deeper, there's so much more to it. So emergence is essentially like, you know, an emergent phenomena is something where the properties of a system can't be explained by those of its constituent parts. So a good example is the wetness of water, right? There's nothing intrinsically wet about hydrogen or oxygen on their own. And of course, you know, water is just molecules composed of hydrogen and oxygen. There's nothing even wet about a single water molecule. But when you put them all together, you're going to get wet, you know. So that's what an example is. But the other example is, you know, it's not just like consciousness is a prime example of this. Superconductivity is another one, but you have these components, but you don't quite understand how they come together to produce this phenomenon. It's almost like magic. Can we not predict the qualities of water now from our understanding of an atomic level, a molecular level, the way it all, you know, makes hydrogen bonds and stuff? Or is it still unknown really, the wateriness of water? No, I think you're right. I think that's correct. But it is an emergent phenomenon. And there are other emergent phenomena, more complex ones, that we can't get our heads around. Because the traditional way to do science is reductionist, right? You break large scale macroscopic systems down into their constituent microscopic parts, and you try and deduce the laws that govern those parts. But when you're faced with these really complex emergent systems, it's much harder to do that. And, you know, consciousness is a good example of that. So the truth is, when you speak to the experts on this, and we had a writer do that, they say, you know, this is clearly a really important concept, and a word that gets bandied around a lot. But the truth is that we don't really know how it works. And there isn't a huge amount of proper research into this, because it's very difficult to do. So we talked to a few of the people who are actually doing that. And one of them is a guy called Eric Hole, who is a neuroscientist at Tufts. I think he might have actually left academia now to become a novelist. But he has a theory, basically, a new approach called causal emergence, in which he tries to, like, identify the scale at which a system's variables have the strongest causal effects on each other, and hence, whatever the emergent property is. And his idea is that, you know, this is one way to sort of get to grips with emergent phenomena, and to then be able to explain how it works. Yeah, I think it's really important to study emergence in a really proper way. Like, as you say, reductionism has been so successful, been so useful for science, but it doesn't do everything. We still need it. But we need a more directed look at all these emergent phenomena. I think what's really nice about some of the things that we cover here, like emergence and consciousness, and even maybe even AI, you could say, is that the point of these special issues isn't to answer these questions. It's to sometimes take questions that don't necessarily have an answer, or we don't know what the answer is yet, and just try and ask, you know, those people who think about it every day as their job, whose job it is to work with these things that we don't understand and try and learn from them and try and kind of approach these really difficult things through their way of thinking rather than necessarily find the answer, which is what we normally try and do at New Scientist. Well, yeah, but this is the joy of it, isn't it? Someone else has done the work for you, and you can just read this distilled expertise into a bite-sized chunk. Another topic that we're covering in the special issue, it's a very timely one, one we're all familiar with, aging. Graham Lawton, our staff writer and aging guru, has covered this. Dan, give us a taster of this one. Obviously, you know, the obvious thing to say is that aging is inevitable. It happens to all of us, or at least those lucky enough to live long enough to age. And with aging comes age-related diseases, right? Like you get to 50, you're probably going to have one, you get to 85, you're probably going to have a fair few of them, you know, and that's not surprising. We all know that. But what I think is surprising and what this piece really alights on is that amongst the community of biologists who research aging, there's a sort of a growing belief that we have a pretty comprehensive understanding of the molecular and cellular processes that drive aging. And not only that, that we are beginning to see that we can, in a lot of these cases, we can actually intervene to either slow or in some cases, stop these processes. And you know, this is not to say that we're going to be able to stop aging, but what it does mean is that we have a better grasp on what drives aging and how we can create drugs that target some of these processes. For instance, senescent cells, these sorts of zombie cells that should die off, but don't and leach poison into the environment and then cause all sorts of problems elsewhere. Well, there's ways that we're figuring out in human and animal trials and in some human trials where you can clear the body out of these cells and start to basically treat aging. You know, we're never going to cure aging. We're never going to stop aging, but we can start to treat it like any other disease, which was news to me, you know, and it kind of seems a bit outlandish, but actually you speak to the people involved and they're saying, yeah, there's an increasing confidence that we can treat aging like any other disease. Yeah. There's been a long sort of struggle about whether to actually class aging as a disease or not. And this is another example of, I guess, all of the pieces in this special issue open the door to a whole world of other research. And that's a great example of what this piece on aging does, because there's so many other roads that this leads to. Look, I think we'll leave it there just to flag up the other subjects we cover that we haven't really gone into in the detail yet. There's this symmetry that Dan mentioned, origins of life, artificial intelligence, long-termism, quantum gravity and happiness. And I have to say that you should make yourself happy now by going out and buying this special issue. And we'll put links to it in the show notes if you want it on digital. Thanks to our guests, Dan Cousins, Kat DeLonge, Abbey Beale and Claire Wilson. And thanks to you for listening. Do subscribe to our podcast so you don't miss out and we'll see you soon. Bye.Hello, welcome to a bonus episode of New Scientist Weekly. I'm Rowan Hooper. On today's show we're presenting a guide on how to think about some of the most important and mind-bending concepts in science, from artificial intelligence to mental health, from nutrition to virtual particles. And it all comes from a special how to think about issue of New Scientist that's out now. We're going to give you a flavour of some of the things it covers and we'll put links in the show notes if you want to find out more. And you can of course buy the physical magazine for the full experience. To talk through this we've recruited some of the features team who've put this together. Dan Cousins, Kat Delonge, Abbey Beale and Claire Wilson, thanks for joining us. Hello. Dan, let's start with you, Head of Features, can you give us an overview of this special issue? How did it come about? We've got 13 different concepts in it, you know, take us through it a bit. Well, the truth is that this is not the first time we've done a special like this. Every few years we just take 13 really interesting concepts and throw the kitchen sink at them basically. So the idea is that we do a sort of concise and really clear-eyed guide to 13 ideas, some of which are, as you say, mind-bending in the sense that they're really difficult to get your head around. That might be something like symmetry in physics or wormholes or, as you say, virtual particles. Others are actually quite familiar and everyday, but when you're on closer inspection are actually much more complicated and rich than you might like to think. So these are kind of the sorts of things that we often mention in passing in stories and I focus generally on physics. So for instance, we often mention symmetry, but symmetry is just one word, but actually within that there's so much depth. So it's a chance to really explore what symmetry is in physics and maths. And the same goes for something like calories. Calories is a word we use all the time, something we're very familiar with, but actually when you really dig deeper, calories, there's a lot more to it, because it comes down to metabolism and the way our body burns fuel. So the idea ultimately is that we can get some of these really interesting and stimulating ideas by asking the experts how they think about them. These people who are the professionals, this is their job to think about these concepts day in and day out. So how do they think about them? And oftentimes when you speak to them, you'll find that they will disavow you of a lot of misconceptions and hopefully they'll really enlighten you and you'll feel like you understand these concepts a lot better than you did when you started. So we've picked these 13 things. We're not going to go through them all now, but let's dip into some of them because as you say, we distill down what the experts thinking about this. So what about consciousness? Because that's something we cover a lot. Caroline Williams has done that for us. And what aspect is she touching on in this? Well, Caroline is exploring the mind-body connection. So in the search for the roots of consciousness, how do the physical constituents of the brain give rise to our subjective experience of the world? That's obviously a massive mystery. And you might think, well, obviously you want to look at the brain, that's where you should look. But actually increasingly it's coming to light that you should also be looking at the body in terms of... And there's a sense called interoception, which is how you sort of interpret the signals from your body. And increasingly consciousness researchers are realising, correct me if I'm wrong, Kat, that these signals are actually really crucial to understanding consciousness. Yeah. So these are signals that are coming from your internal organs, like maybe your heart or your gut and creating essentially your sense of self because your brain is constantly keeping track of these things without us ever realising it. And so the idea is that your sense of self and your sense of consciousness is being built from the body up into the brain rather than being built in the brain and then kind of sent to you somehow. And it just so happens that Caroline's written a book all about... Well, that touches on a lot of this called Move, which is a fantastic book. One of the things I found fascinating about the collection of things that we cover is that there are things that are mind-bending like quantum gravity. But as you say, Dan, the things that we cover that are really... You think at first are really familiar, like nutrition and like calories. Kat, you've done the piece on calories. Can you take us through that? What's weird about them? Yeah. So this is something that I kind of started to look into and I was really surprised by how counterintuitive it is because when I was a teenager, like in the 90s, I could probably tell you how many calories there were in every food that you had in your house. And because the idea of the calorie really lies at the heart of all of our nutrition advice and our weight loss or weight gain, depending what you're trying to do, is thought to come down to the calorie. If you consume more calories than you expend, then you will put on weight and vice versa. But actually, when you start to dig into it, it's much more complicated than that. So the calorie is a measure of energy, essentially. But when you look at the food that you're eating, you can put a number to it. And these numbers are derived from old experiments where basically you can just burn food and see how much energy comes out. But the body is not just a furnace. You can't just put things in it and measure the heat that comes out like you can in these experiments. And when you start to eat real food in real life, it's very different. So for example, take a stick of celery. There's about six calories in a stick of celery. We always hear that if you eat, it takes more energy to eat a stick of celery than you get from it. Is that true? Well, that's how I sort of came to find this out because I was like, I want to get to the bottom of this question. Is celery a negative calorie food? Well, it depends how you eat it, right? Because if you have a stick of celery, there's about six calories in it. If you cook that stick of celery, it will give you 30 calories. If you cook it in lard. No, because cooking is basically an extension of the digestive process. So you're sort of pre-digesting your food and then it's just making more of it available to you. So that's just one example. But also, you can eat a certain number of calories a day or two people can eat a certain number of calories a day and it can have a massively different effect on how much weight they put on. People are different. And all of these experiments were done on sort of very small controlled ways and then generalized out to the whole population. And what we're seeing now is that that just doesn't actually make any sense in the real world. If you eat an orange, for example, as orange juice, it's going to be very different for you than if you eat a whole orange with all of the, you know, not the skin. With all of the peel on it. No, OK. All right. So this tells us a new way to think about calories or a modern way to think about calories. And we probably have been trapped into old ways of thinking about it. Well, let's go to something a bit more conventionally weird as we think of in New Scientist, virtual particles. Abbey, are these even real? I mean, OK, there is a clue in the name, but what are they? Yeah. So the question of whether they're real or not depends, I think, on who you ask. So I spoke to four researchers for the story and they would, I think, all say that they're probably not real. What they are instead is like a mathematical tool that we can use to describe reality. So to kind of answer what they are, we have to talk first about particles and what they are. So you might think about a particle as like a tiny point of matter. I think a lot of people do. But physicists and quantum mechanics, you talk about particles mathematically as ripples in quantum fields. So the idea is that there are all these quantum fields and each one relates to a particle. So the photon field relates to the photon and so on. So a photon is a ripple in the photon field. And what that means is they're ripples that are permanent. If you just left them there, they might move around, but they wouldn't disappear. They can be, if two particles interact together, they can create new ripples which do disappear. These are temporary ripples and those are virtual particles. And they can also be created when fields themselves interact with each other. Okay. But they're really central to, they're at the basis of all the, our understanding of physics, of all the physics, right? But we don't really know what they are and they probably don't even exist. Well, they're at the basis of the mathematics that we use to describe quantum mechanics. So in the 1960s, there was a physicist called Richard Feynman, who up until that point, all we'd been doing to work out how fundamental particles interact was just lots and lots of maths. But what he did was invent these diagrams called Feynman diagrams, which you might have seen, they sometimes have squiggly lines or straight lines and each particle has its own little line and you can describe interactions in a much simpler way than using them. And what he introduced through inventing Feynman diagrams was virtual particles, which are lines within the diagram. So they don't go anywhere. They don't come in or go out. Okay. I think for the sake of my head, I'm going to leave it there, but there's more in the special issue on that. Claire, so mental health, right? We talk about it a lot more these days, which is great, but what is the latest on it? What have you been looking at in this issue? Okay. Well, I hope you're not getting too comfortable about mental health compared with virtual particles, because I'm afraid in this piece, we look at the fact that most of what we thought we knew about mental health has recently turned out to be wrong. I mean, we used to think that mental health problems were caused by, we had quite a simplistic view that mental health problems were caused by too high or too low levels of certain brain chemicals, the so-called chemical imbalance theory. So the classic case is depression was supposed to be caused by low serotonin or schizophrenia was thought to be caused by too much activity of dopamine networks. And now it looks like that is wrong. So our understanding of genetics of mental health is wrong.was also far too simplistic. There's never just one gene that predisposes us to a certain condition like depression. There are more than a hundred genes that have been identified so far that each has a tiny influence on our mental health. So that's just a couple of ways that we are kind of rethinking the old simplistic ways of looking at it. And it does make sense. You know, we are now starting to see mental health conditions not as a kind of either or state, black or white, you either have depression or you don't, but it is more like a spectrum with perhaps all of us on it somewhere. Isn't there also an idea that there's a lot of overlap between different mental health conditions and actually we can't really just categorise them so easily and everything's much more sort of mixed and murky? Yeah, that's a really good point. And it's, that's also been the genetics of mental health that has pointed us more in that direction, as you say, because those same genes that those same, maybe over a hundred genes that predispose you to depression also predispose you to other conditions like schizophrenia, bipolar disorder or anxiety. So as you say, what we've previously thought of as completely different conditions, they might all have a kind of common underlying cause in the brain. And if that is true, I think that does, you know, require a kind of a complete rethink about mental health and mental illness. Wow, that's massive, isn't it? Great. There's more in the special issue on that. So what have we done? We've done consciousness, virtual particles, mental health, calories. As I say, there's 13 things that we talk about in here. Another one that jumped out at me was emergence. Dan, do you want to take us through this one? Yeah, I think this is another one of these, not quite a weasel word, but a word that we use that you sort of think, oh, I have an understanding of what that is, but when you look deeper, there's so much more to it. So emergence is essentially like, you know, an emergent phenomena is something where the properties of a system can't be explained by those of its constituent parts. So a good example is the wetness of water, right? There's nothing intrinsically wet about hydrogen or oxygen on their own. And of course, you know, water is just molecules composed of hydrogen and oxygen. There's nothing even wet about a single water molecule. But when you put them all together, you're going to get wet, you know. So that's what an example is. But the other example is, you know, it's not just like consciousness is a prime example of this. Superconductivity is another one, but you have these components, but you don't quite understand how they come together to produce this phenomenon. It's almost like magic. Can we not predict the qualities of water now from our understanding of an atomic level, a molecular level, the way it all, you know, makes hydrogen bonds and stuff? Or is it still unknown really, the wateriness of water? No, I think you're right. I think that's correct. But it is an emergent phenomenon. And there are other emergent phenomena, more complex ones, that we can't get our heads around. Because the traditional way to do science is reductionist, right? You break large scale macroscopic systems down into their constituent microscopic parts, and you try and deduce the laws that govern those parts. But when you're faced with these really complex emergent systems, it's much harder to do that. And, you know, consciousness is a good example of that. So the truth is, when you speak to the experts on this, and we had a writer do that, they say, you know, this is clearly a really important concept, and a word that gets bandied around a lot. But the truth is that we don't really know how it works. And there isn't a huge amount of proper research into this, because it's very difficult to do. So we talked to a few of the people who are actually doing that. And one of them is a guy called Eric Hole, who is a neuroscientist at Tufts. I think he might have actually left academia now to become a novelist. But he has a theory, basically, a new approach called causal emergence, in which he tries to, like, identify the scale at which a system's variables have the strongest causal effects on each other, and hence, whatever the emergent property is. And his idea is that, you know, this is one way to sort of get to grips with emergent phenomena, and to then be able to explain how it works. Yeah, I think it's really important to study emergence in a really proper way. Like, as you say, reductionism has been so successful, been so useful for science, but it doesn't do everything. We still need it. But we need a more directed look at all these emergent phenomena. I think what's really nice about some of the things that we cover here, like emergence and consciousness, and even maybe even AI, you could say, is that the point of these special issues isn't to answer these questions. It's to sometimes take questions that don't necessarily have an answer, or we don't know what the answer is yet, and just try and ask, you know, those people who think about it every day as their job, whose job it is to work with these things that we don't understand and try and learn from them and try and kind of approach these really difficult things through their way of thinking rather than necessarily find the answer, which is what we normally try and do at New Scientist. Well, yeah, but this is the joy of it, isn't it? Someone else has done the work for you, and you can just read this distilled expertise into a bite-sized chunk. Another topic that we're covering in the special issue, it's a very timely one, one we're all familiar with, aging. Graham Lawton, our staff writer and aging guru, has covered this. Dan, give us a taster of this one. Obviously, you know, the obvious thing to say is that aging is inevitable. It happens to all of us, or at least those lucky enough to live long enough to age. And with aging comes age-related diseases, right? Like you get to 50, you're probably going to have one, you get to 85, you're probably going to have a fair few of them, you know, and that's not surprising. We all know that. But what I think is surprising and what this piece really alights on is that amongst the community of biologists who research aging, there's a sort of a growing belief that we have a pretty comprehensive understanding of the molecular and cellular processes that drive aging. And not only that, that we are beginning to see that we can, in a lot of these cases, we can actually intervene to either slow or in some cases, stop these processes. And you know, this is not to say that we're going to be able to stop aging, but what it does mean is that we have a better grasp on what drives aging and how we can create drugs that target some of these processes. For instance, senescent cells, these sorts of zombie cells that should die off, but don't and leach poison into the environment and then cause all sorts of problems elsewhere. Well, there's ways that we're figuring out in human and animal trials and in some human trials where you can clear the body out of these cells and start to basically treat aging. You know, we're never going to cure aging. We're never going to stop aging, but we can start to treat it like any other disease, which was news to me, you know, and it kind of seems a bit outlandish, but actually you speak to the people involved and they're saying, yeah, there's an increasing confidence that we can treat aging like any other disease. Yeah. There's been a long sort of struggle about whether to actually class aging as a disease or not. And this is another example of, I guess, all of the pieces in this special issue open the door to a whole world of other research. And that's a great example of what this piece on aging does, because there's so many other roads that this leads to. Look, I think we'll leave it there just to flag up the other subjects we cover that we haven't really gone into in the detail yet. There's this symmetry that Dan mentioned, origins of life, artificial intelligence, long-termism, quantum gravity and happiness. And I have to say that you should make yourself happy now by going out and buying this special issue. And we'll put links to it in the show notes if you want it on digital. Thanks to our guests, Dan Cousins, Kat DeLonge, Abbey Beale and Claire Wilson. And thanks to you for listening. Do subscribe to our podcast so you don't miss out and we'll see you soon. Bye.Hello, welcome to a bonus episode of New Scientist Weekly. I'm Rowan Hooper. On today's show we're presenting a guide on how to think about some of the most important and mind-bending concepts in science, from artificial intelligence to mental health, from nutrition to virtual particles. And it all comes from a special how to think about issue of New Scientist that's out now. We're going to give you a flavour of some of the things it covers and we'll put links in the show notes if you want to find out more. And you can of course buy the physical magazine for the full experience. To talk through this we've recruited some of the features team who've put this together. Dan Cousins, Kat Delonge, Abbey Beale and Claire Wilson, thanks for joining us. Hello. Dan, let's start with you, Head of Features, can you give us an overview of this special issue? How did it come about? We've got 13 different concepts in it, you know, take us through it a bit. Well, the truth is that this is not the first time we've done a special like this. Every few years we just take 13 really interesting concepts and throw the kitchen sink at them basically. So the idea is that we do a sort of concise and really clear-eyed guide to 13 ideas, some of which are, as you say, mind-bending in the sense that they're really difficult to get your head around. That might be something like symmetry in physics or wormholes or, as you say, virtual particles. Others are actually quite familiar and everyday, but when you're on closer inspection are actually much more complicated and rich than you might like to think. So these are kind of the sorts of things that we often mention in passing in stories and I focus generally on physics. So for instance, we often mention symmetry, but symmetry is just one word, but actually within that there's so much depth. So it's a chance to really explore what symmetry is in physics and maths. And the same goes for something like calories. Calories is a word we use all the time, something we're very familiar with, but actually when you really dig deeper, calories, there's a lot more to it, because it comes down to metabolism and the way our body burns fuel. So the idea ultimately is that we can get some of these really interesting and stimulating ideas by asking the experts how they think about them. These people who are the professionals, this is their job to think about these concepts day in and day out. So how do they think about them? And oftentimes when you speak to them, you'll find that they will disavow you of a lot of misconceptions and hopefully they'll really enlighten you and you'll feel like you understand these concepts a lot better than you did when you started. So we've picked these 13 things. We're not going to go through them all now, but let's dip into some of them because as you say, we distill down what the experts thinking about this. So what about consciousness? Because that's something we cover a lot. Caroline Williams has done that for us. And what aspect is she touching on in this? Well, Caroline is exploring the mind-body connection. So in the search for the roots of consciousness, how do the physical constituents of the brain give rise to our subjective experience of the world? That's obviously a massive mystery. And you might think, well, obviously you want to look at the brain, that's where you should look. But actually increasingly it's coming to light that you should also be looking at the body in terms of... And there's a sense called interoception, which is how you sort of interpret the signals from your body. And increasingly consciousness researchers are realising, correct me if I'm wrong, Kat, that these signals are actually really crucial to understanding consciousness. Yeah. So these are signals that are coming from your internal organs, like maybe your heart or your gut and creating essentially your sense of self because your brain is constantly keeping track of these things without us ever realising it. And so the idea is that your sense of self and your sense of consciousness is being built from the body up into the brain rather than being built in the brain and then kind of sent to you somehow. And it just so happens that Caroline's written a book all about... Well, that touches on a lot of this called Move, which is a fantastic book. One of the things I found fascinating about the collection of things that we cover is that there are things that are mind-bending like quantum gravity. But as you say, Dan, the things that we cover that are really... You think at first are really familiar, like nutrition and like calories. Kat, you've done the piece on calories. Can you take us through that? What's weird about them? Yeah. So this is something that I kind of started to look into and I was really surprised by how counterintuitive it is because when I was a teenager, like in the 90s, I could probably tell you how many calories there were in every food that you had in your house. And because the idea of the calorie really lies at the heart of all of our nutrition advice and our weight loss or weight gain, depending what you're trying to do, is thought to come down to the calorie. If you consume more calories than you expend, then you will put on weight and vice versa. But actually, when you start to dig into it, it's much more complicated than that. So the calorie is a measure of energy, essentially. But when you look at the food that you're eating, you can put a number to it. And these numbers are derived from old experiments where basically you can just burn food and see how much energy comes out. But the body is not just a furnace. You can't just put things in it and measure the heat that comes out like you can in these experiments. And when you start to eat real food in real life, it's very different. So for example, take a stick of celery. There's about six calories in a stick of celery. We always hear that if you eat, it takes more energy to eat a stick of celery than you get from it. Is that true? Well, that's how I sort of came to find this out because I was like, I want to get to the bottom of this question. Is celery a negative calorie food? Well, it depends how you eat it, right? Because if you have a stick of celery, there's about six calories in it. If you cook that stick of celery, it will give you 30 calories. If you cook it in lard. No, because cooking is basically an extension of the digestive process. So you're sort of pre-digesting your food and then it's just making more of it available to you. So that's just one example. But also, you can eat a certain number of calories a day or two people can eat a certain number of calories a day and it can have a massively different effect on how much weight they put on. People are different. And all of these experiments were done on sort of very small controlled ways and then generalized out to the whole population. And what we're seeing now is that that just doesn't actually make any sense in the real world. If you eat an orange, for example, as orange juice, it's going to be very different for you than if you eat a whole orange with all of the, you know, not the skin. With all of the peel on it. No, OK. All right. So this tells us a new way to think about calories or a modern way to think about calories. And we probably have been trapped into old ways of thinking about it. Well, let's go to something a bit more conventionally weird as we think of in New Scientist, virtual particles. Abbey, are these even real? I mean, OK, there is a clue in the name, but what are they? Yeah. So the question of whether they're real or not depends, I think, on who you ask. So I spoke to four researchers for the story and they would, I think, all say that they're probably not real. What they are instead is like a mathematical tool that we can use to describe reality. So to kind of answer what they are, we have to talk first about particles and what they are. So you might think about a particle as like a tiny point of matter. I think a lot of people do. But physicists and quantum mechanics, you talk about particles mathematically as ripples in quantum fields. So the idea is that there are all these quantum fields and each one relates to a particle. So the photon field relates to the photon and so on. So a photon is a ripple in the photon field. And what that means is they're ripples that are permanent. If you just left them there, they might move around, but they wouldn't disappear. They can be, if two particles interact together, they can create new ripples which do disappear. These are temporary ripples and those are virtual particles. And they can also be created when fields themselves interact with each other. Okay. But they're really central to, they're at the basis of all the, our understanding of physics, of all the physics, right? But we don't really know what they are and they probably don't even exist. Well, they're at the basis of the mathematics that we use to describe quantum mechanics. So in the 1960s, there was a physicist called Richard Feynman, who up until that point, all we'd been doing to work out how fundamental particles interact was just lots and lots of maths. But what he did was invent these diagrams called Feynman diagrams, which you might have seen, they sometimes have squiggly lines or straight lines and each particle has its own little line and you can describe interactions in a much simpler way than using them. And what he introduced through inventing Feynman diagrams was virtual particles, which are lines within the diagram. So they don't go anywhere. They don't come in or go out. Okay. I think for the sake of my head, I'm going to leave it there, but there's more in the special issue on that. Claire, so mental health, right? We talk about it a lot more these days, which is great, but what is the latest on it? What have you been looking at in this issue? Okay. Well, I hope you're not getting too comfortable about mental health compared with virtual particles, because I'm afraid in this piece, we look at the fact that most of what we thought we knew about mental health has recently turned out to be wrong. I mean, we used to think that mental health problems were caused by, we had quite a simplistic view that mental health problems were caused by too high or too low levels of certain brain chemicals, the so-called chemical imbalance theory. So the classic case is depression was supposed to be caused by low serotonin or schizophrenia was thought to be caused by too much activity of dopamine networks. And now it looks like that is wrong. So our understanding of genetics of mental health is wrong.was also far too simplistic. There's never just one gene that predisposes us to a certain condition like depression. There are more than a hundred genes that have been identified so far that each has a tiny influence on our mental health. So that's just a couple of ways that we are kind of rethinking the old simplistic ways of looking at it. And it does make sense. You know, we are now starting to see mental health conditions not as a kind of either or state, black or white, you either have depression or you don't, but it is more like a spectrum with perhaps all of us on it somewhere. Isn't there also an idea that there's a lot of overlap between different mental health conditions and actually we can't really just categorise them so easily and everything's much more sort of mixed and murky? Yeah, that's a really good point. And it's, that's also been the genetics of mental health that has pointed us more in that direction, as you say, because those same genes that those same, maybe over a hundred genes that predispose you to depression also predispose you to other conditions like schizophrenia, bipolar disorder or anxiety. So as you say, what we've previously thought of as completely different conditions, they might all have a kind of common underlying cause in the brain. And if that is true, I think that does, you know, require a kind of a complete rethink about mental health and mental illness. Wow, that's massive, isn't it? Great. There's more in the special issue on that. So what have we done? We've done consciousness, virtual particles, mental health, calories. As I say, there's 13 things that we talk about in here. Another one that jumped out at me was emergence. Dan, do you want to take us through this one? Yeah, I think this is another one of these, not quite a weasel word, but a word that we use that you sort of think, oh, I have an understanding of what that is, but when you look deeper, there's so much more to it. So emergence is essentially like, you know, an emergent phenomena is something where the properties of a system can't be explained by those of its constituent parts. So a good example is the wetness of water, right? There's nothing intrinsically wet about hydrogen or oxygen on their own. And of course, you know, water is just molecules composed of hydrogen and oxygen. There's nothing even wet about a single water molecule. But when you put them all together, you're going to get wet, you know. So that's what an example is. But the other example is, you know, it's not just like consciousness is a prime example of this. Superconductivity is another one, but you have these components, but you don't quite understand how they come together to produce this phenomenon. It's almost like magic. Can we not predict the qualities of water now from our understanding of an atomic level, a molecular level, the way it all, you know, makes hydrogen bonds and stuff? Or is it still unknown really, the wateriness of water? No, I think you're right. I think that's correct. But it is an emergent phenomenon. And there are other emergent phenomena, more complex ones, that we can't get our heads around. Because the traditional way to do science is reductionist, right? You break large scale macroscopic systems down into their constituent microscopic parts, and you try and deduce the laws that govern those parts. But when you're faced with these really complex emergent systems, it's much harder to do that. And, you know, consciousness is a good example of that. So the truth is, when you speak to the experts on this, and we had a writer do that, they say, you know, this is clearly a really important concept, and a word that gets bandied around a lot. But the truth is that we don't really know how it works. And there isn't a huge amount of proper research into this, because it's very difficult to do. So we talked to a few of the people who are actually doing that. And one of them is a guy called Eric Hole, who is a neuroscientist at Tufts. I think he might have actually left academia now to become a novelist. But he has a theory, basically, a new approach called causal emergence, in which he tries to, like, identify the scale at which a system's variables have the strongest causal effects on each other, and hence, whatever the emergent property is. And his idea is that, you know, this is one way to sort of get to grips with emergent phenomena, and to then be able to explain how it works. Yeah, I think it's really important to study emergence in a really proper way. Like, as you say, reductionism has been so successful, been so useful for science, but it doesn't do everything. We still need it. But we need a more directed look at all these emergent phenomena. I think what's really nice about some of the things that we cover here, like emergence and consciousness, and even maybe even AI, you could say, is that the point of these special issues isn't to answer these questions. It's to sometimes take questions that don't necessarily have an answer, or we don't know what the answer is yet, and just try and ask, you know, those people who think about it every day as their job, whose job it is to work with these things that we don't understand and try and learn from them and try and kind of approach these really difficult things through their way of thinking rather than necessarily find the answer, which is what we normally try and do at New Scientist. Well, yeah, but this is the joy of it, isn't it? Someone else has done the work for you, and you can just read this distilled expertise into a bite-sized chunk. Another topic that we're covering in the special issue, it's a very timely one, one we're all familiar with, aging. Graham Lawton, our staff writer and aging guru, has covered this. Dan, give us a taster of this one. Obviously, you know, the obvious thing to say is that aging is inevitable. It happens to all of us, or at least those lucky enough to live long enough to age. And with aging comes age-related diseases, right? Like you get to 50, you're probably going to have one, you get to 85, you're probably going to have a fair few of them, you know, and that's not surprising. We all know that. But what I think is surprising and what this piece really alights on is that amongst the community of biologists who research aging, there's a sort of a growing belief that we have a pretty comprehensive understanding of the molecular and cellular processes that drive aging. And not only that, that we are beginning to see that we can, in a lot of these cases, we can actually intervene to either slow or in some cases, stop these processes. And you know, this is not to say that we're going to be able to stop aging, but what it does mean is that we have a better grasp on what drives aging and how we can create drugs that target some of these processes. For instance, senescent cells, these sorts of zombie cells that should die off, but don't and leach poison into the environment and then cause all sorts of problems elsewhere. Well, there's ways that we're figuring out in human and animal trials and in some human trials where you can clear the body out of these cells and start to basically treat aging. You know, we're never going to cure aging. We're never going to stop aging, but we can start to treat it like any other disease, which was news to me, you know, and it kind of seems a bit outlandish, but actually you speak to the people involved and they're saying, yeah, there's an increasing confidence that we can treat aging like any other disease. Yeah. There's been a long sort of struggle about whether to actually class aging as a disease or not. And this is another example of, I guess, all of the pieces in this special issue open the door to a whole world of other research. And that's a great example of what this piece on aging does, because there's so many other roads that this leads to. Look, I think we'll leave it there just to flag up the other subjects we cover that we haven't really gone into in the detail yet. There's this symmetry that Dan mentioned, origins of life, artificial intelligence, long-termism, quantum gravity and happiness. And I have to say that you should make yourself happy now by going out and buying this special issue. And we'll put links to it in the show notes if you want it on digital. Thanks to our guests, Dan Cousins, Kat DeLonge, Abbey Beale and Claire Wilson. And thanks to you for listening. Do subscribe to our podcast so you don't miss out and we'll see you soon. Bye.