it does and they are. And they will be sharing bandwidth with their neighbors. They already are. And they're going to be sharing bandwidth with even more devices now that sidewalk is open to developers and we're going to see more devices that work on the network. So this is breaking my brain a little bit. Does this in any way affect the strength of your signal then if you're part of this? Like if I, okay, let's say I'm using Comcast as my Internet service provider and then I have a bunch of Ring and Echo devices and those are connecting to the Internet through Comcast. But then they're also sort of beaming out their own network. And my neighbors are utilizing that. Does that affect the strength of my signal in any way? Or how does that work? So the short answer is yes, it does. But the longer answer is you really don't have to worry about it. Bandwidth is very low. It's capped at 80 kbps, which is about like about a 20th of what you need to stream a video. So it's like very low bandwidth, right? It's enough to send a notification. It's almost enough to send an email quickly. But for these little packets of data like, hey, I'm here or just reporting a status, which is mostly what sidewalk devices are doing, it's very, very low bandwidth. So most of the devices aren't going to be using that full 80 kbps. Also if you are in a household and you have all of your devices enrolled in sidewalk, the system is only allowed to use 500 megabytes a month of your bandwidth, of your total bandwidth. So for people who maybe pay by the megabyte or pay by the gigabyte, they don't really have as much to worry about because 500 gigabytes over a month is like highly unlikely given how low bandwidth these devices are. And the amount of Wi-Fi that somebody can probably not notice if somebody else is using, you know what I mean? Yeah. Despite the fact that it's very low bandwidth, I have to imagine that traditional ISPs don't love this. I'm not sure how the ISPs feel about it because I didn't like interview any ISPs, but I guess