Mike. Lauren. Would you consider your home a smart home? Like, do you have all the gadgets there? Do you have a security camera and an Alexa speaker? And then I don't know what else. A Sonos? I do have a Sonos. I would consider my home a smart home just because I'm a consumer products editor at Wired, which means that- Hey, get out. Yeah, I know. There's a lot of stuff in our house that talks to the internet. There's a lot of stuff in our house that sends notifications to our phones. Sonos is the big one. I don't have a ring camera. I don't have any security cameras in the house or right outside of it. And I don't have any Alexa speakers. How about you? I do have a security camera. Right now its battery is drained and I haven't bothered to recharge it. So if anyone wants to break in, have at it. Please do not. Please don't. Yeah, there's some stuff. I have a Google Nest Hub in my bedroom. It does not have a camera. That was very intentional. It does have some kind of radar, but I like having the screen. I use it to, I don't know, query stuff, play music. But I intentionally have not had an Alexa in my home for a few years now. I used to review a lot of those products, but I don't use it anymore. I'm curious about why you don't want them in your house anymore. I'm curious about the thing you just wrote about, which is really about Amazon trying to take over the smart home world by ensuring your smart home products are always connected to Wi-Fi. I would love to tell you about it. Let's do it. Hi, everyone. Welcome to Gadget Lab. I'm Lauren Good. I'm a senior writer at Wired. And I'm Michael Kolory. I'm a senior editor at Wired. And today on the show, we're talking about Sidewalk. If you're really plugged into the tech world, you might be thinking, wait, isn't that a Google thing? Either that, or you think we're reporting from some kind of concrete convention. We've switched beats, Mike. We're no longer covering tech. This is a construction show now. Solid. Yes. All right, neither is the case. Sidewalk is an Amazon project. It was also once the name of a Google