Mike. Lauren. Would you consider your home a smart home? Like, do you have all the gadgets there? Do you have a security camera and an Alexa speaker? And then I don't know what else. A Sonos? I do have a Sonos. I would consider my home a smart home just because I'm a consumer products editor at Wired, which means that- Hey, get out. Yeah, I know. There's a lot of stuff in our house that talks to the internet. There's a lot of stuff in our house that sends notifications to our phones. Sonos is the big one. I don't have a ring camera. I don't have any security cameras in the house or right outside of it. And I don't have any Alexa speakers. How about you? I do have a security camera. Right now its battery is drained and I haven't bothered to recharge it. So if anyone wants to break in, have at it. Please do not. Please don't. Yeah, there's some stuff. I have a Google Nest Hub in my bedroom. It does not have a camera. That was very intentional. It does have some kind of radar, but I like having the screen. I use it to, I don't know, query stuff, play music. But I intentionally have not had an Alexa in my home for a few years now. I used to review a lot of those products, but I don't use it anymore. I'm curious about why you don't want them in your house anymore. I'm curious about the thing you just wrote about, which is really about Amazon trying to take over the smart home world by ensuring your smart home products are always connected to Wi-Fi. I would love to tell you about it. Let's do it. Hi, everyone. Welcome to Gadget Lab. I'm Lauren Good. I'm a senior writer at Wired. And I'm Michael Kolory. I'm a senior editor at Wired. And today on the show, we're talking about Sidewalk. If you're really plugged into the tech world, you might be thinking, wait, isn't that a Google thing? Either that, or you think we're reporting from some kind of concrete convention. We've switched beats, Mike. We're no longer covering tech. This is a construction show now. Solid. Yes. All right, neither is the case. Sidewalk is an Amazon project. It was also once the name of a Google Smart City project, but that has been shuttered. Amazon Sidewalk is basically a low-bandwidth Wi-Fi network made up of all of the Ring security cameras and doorbells across your neighborhood. It's been around since June of 2021. And earlier this week, Amazon made its developer kit available to the public. Now, Mike, you set out to report on Amazon Sidewalk, and you made some really interesting discoveries. One is that its footprint is actually huge. And the second is that most people you spoke to had no idea that they were even an active part of Amazon Sidewalk. So first tell us, just how big is Amazon Sidewalk? When the company announced the update on Tuesday of this week, they let it be known that 90% of the US population is covered by Sidewalk's network. So 90% of the US is Amazon's footprint right now for Wi-Fi that's out there and available for devices to take advantage of. This is something that, based on the sample of people you asked, most people have not really heard of. That's right. It's wild. Yeah, it is. It's kind of mind-boggling to think about when you think about a company that is as big as Amazon and makes so much stuff that so many people have, right? Like we were just talking about. It uses ring doorbells and wired ring cameras, as well as recent Echo speakers. So everything from the Echo Dot to the Echo Home Hub, which is like the Echo with a screen on it. It uses those as part of its network. And when Amazon turned it on, they made all of those devices active on the network. So it is much bigger than you might think. And the coverage is actually great. I got the opportunity to look at some of the coverage maps. And San Francisco, our city, is almost entirely covered. The only parts that are not are the parts where nobody lives, like the top of the hill. Oakland, similarly, almost entirely covered. Berkeley, almost entirely covered with signal from Amazon Sidewalk. So you've been walking around your neighborhood. And what exactly have you been seeing? What have you been looking at in order to determine where Amazon Sidewalk is? Well, I've been looking at a map that is being populated by a test kit. Amazon sent me a little fob. It's a little battery-powered device about the size of a matchbook. It has a blinking LED on it. It also has a ring logo on it. And I just carried it around. And it sniffs for the availability of sidewalk signal wherever you are. So I live in San Francisco. And as I was walking around, I could open up a web page tied to my Amazon account that is for developers to see what their coverage map looks like. So on the map, I could see all the places that I carried this little thing over the course of three or four days. And I could see what the signal strength was in all the places that I walked. And it was universally fine. Some places it was great. Some places the signal was a little bit sketchy. But in most places, it was like a usable signal. And it's a totally discrete network. It is. So it's important to note that you can't really browse the web on – this is not like free Wi-Fi. You can't just fire up YouTube, connect to Sidewalk, and fire up YouTube and watch a video. It is specifically for smart home devices to use. And they have to have special hardware to tap into it. And they have to have special permission from Amazon's developer program to attach into it. So it's like a low bandwidth version of the Wi-Fi that's in your house. So it can send and receive some data. But it's not traditionally what we think of when we think of free Wi-Fi. It's sort of like – Got it. Right. It's not like city-provided Wi-Fi in the subway station or something like that. Exactly. Okay. Yeah, when you first told me that you were testing this, I thought you were going to be walking around your neighborhood and streaming YouTube videos on your phone and not using data and that that was the point of it. But actually, it is for Amazon's own smart home network. And the idea is if the power goes out, which we've been experiencing a lot here in San Francisco, that – and the Wi-Fi went out, that these would still be connected? That's what the point of this is? Yes, that's one of the points. That is one of the big selling points. Basically it is Amazon's network, right? It's a network that's been built on the backbone of all of these Amazon-branded smart home products. Those serve as endpoints in the network and they're everywhere, right? However, now it's open to other developers. So if you make a gadget, you can put a special chip in that gadget and make it so they can also attach to the network. So that's really why they wanted us to go out and write about how good the coverage is because they want to sort of send out the message to the world that like, hey, there's this network available you can tap into. So if I want to put my gadget on the network, yes, I can connect to the Internet without really having to set it up because it turns on and if it's programmed to look for a sidewalk signal, it'll see one because I live in a densely populated city and it will already be able to do some connected stuff even though I haven't gone through the setup process yet. So that's one thing, right? It makes like turning these things on and getting them to work much easier. It also allows you to use gadgets that are away from your router. So if you think about something in your backyard, like a solar panel controller or a camera or a moisture sensor in your backyard or in your basement, maybe it can't see your router that well, but it can definitely see the sidewalk signal that's emanating from your next door neighbor's Alexa speaker, which is in the window, right? So it can use the available signal that's sort of ambiently everywhere because everybody owns Amazon and Ring devices to connect to the Internet. So if my Internet goes out and I have a Ring doorbell, my Ring doorbell can use sidewalk to still send me a notification on my phone to tell me that somebody's at my door. And how is your next door neighbor supposed to feel about that? The fact that they might have an Echo or a Ring and perhaps unbeknownst to them, your moisture sensor in your backyard is pulling off of their Wi-Fi signal. I don't even know if that's the best way to describe it. Unbeknownst is absolutely the best word because a lot of people do not know that this network even exists or that they are participating in it. And in fact, it does and they are. And they will be sharing bandwidth with their neighbors. They already are. And they're going to be sharing bandwidth with even more devices now that sidewalk is open to developers and we're going to see more devices that work on the network. So this is breaking my brain a little bit. Does this in any way affect the strength of your signal then if you're part of this? Like if I, okay, let's say I'm using Comcast as my Internet service provider and then I have a bunch of Ring and Echo devices and those are connecting to the Internet through Comcast. But then they're also sort of beaming out their own network. And my neighbors are utilizing that. Does that affect the strength of my signal in any way? Or how does that work? So the short answer is yes, it does. But the longer answer is you really don't have to worry about it. Bandwidth is very low. It's capped at 80 kbps, which is about like about a 20th of what you need to stream a video. So it's like very low bandwidth, right? It's enough to send a notification. It's almost enough to send an email quickly. But for these little packets of data like, hey, I'm here or just reporting a status, which is mostly what sidewalk devices are doing, it's very, very low bandwidth. So most of the devices aren't going to be using that full 80 kbps. Also if you are in a household and you have all of your devices enrolled in sidewalk, the system is only allowed to use 500 megabytes a month of your bandwidth, of your total bandwidth. So for people who maybe pay by the megabyte or pay by the gigabyte, they don't really have as much to worry about because 500 gigabytes over a month is like highly unlikely given how low bandwidth these devices are. And the amount of Wi-Fi that somebody can probably not notice if somebody else is using, you know what I mean? Yeah. Despite the fact that it's very low bandwidth, I have to imagine that traditional ISPs don't love this. I'm not sure how the ISPs feel about it because I didn't like interview any ISPs, but I guess