Smart City project, but that has been shuttered. Amazon Sidewalk is basically a low-bandwidth Wi-Fi network made up of all of the Ring security cameras and doorbells across your neighborhood. It's been around since June of 2021. And earlier this week, Amazon made its developer kit available to the public. Now, Mike, you set out to report on Amazon Sidewalk, and you made some really interesting discoveries. One is that its footprint is actually huge. And the second is that most people you spoke to had no idea that they were even an active part of Amazon Sidewalk. So first tell us, just how big is Amazon Sidewalk? When the company announced the update on Tuesday of this week, they let it be known that 90% of the US population is covered by Sidewalk's network. So 90% of the US is Amazon's footprint right now for Wi-Fi that's out there and available for devices to take advantage of. This is something that, based on the sample of people you asked, most people have not really heard of. That's right. It's wild. Yeah, it is. It's kind of mind-boggling to think about when you think about a company that is as big as Amazon and makes so much stuff that so many people have, right? Like we were just talking about. It uses ring doorbells and wired ring cameras, as well as recent Echo speakers. So everything from the Echo Dot to the Echo Home Hub, which is like the Echo with a screen on it. It uses those as part of its network. And when Amazon turned it on, they made all of those devices active on the network. So it is much bigger than you might think. And the coverage is actually great. I got the opportunity to look at some of the coverage maps. And San Francisco, our city, is almost entirely covered. The only parts that are not are the parts where nobody lives, like the top of the hill. Oakland, similarly, almost entirely covered. Berkeley, almost entirely covered with signal from Amazon Sidewalk. So you've been walking around your neighborhood. And what exactly have you been seeing? What have you been looking at in order to determine where Amazon Sidewalk is? Well, I've been looking at a map that is being populated by a test kit. Amazon sent me a little fob. It's a little battery-powered