device about the size of a matchbook. It has a blinking LED on it. It also has a ring logo on it. And I just carried it around. And it sniffs for the availability of sidewalk signal wherever you are. So I live in San Francisco. And as I was walking around, I could open up a web page tied to my Amazon account that is for developers to see what their coverage map looks like. So on the map, I could see all the places that I carried this little thing over the course of three or four days. And I could see what the signal strength was in all the places that I walked. And it was universally fine. Some places it was great. Some places the signal was a little bit sketchy. But in most places, it was like a usable signal. And it's a totally discrete network. It is. So it's important to note that you can't really browse the web on – this is not like free Wi-Fi. You can't just fire up YouTube, connect to Sidewalk, and fire up YouTube and watch a video. It is specifically for smart home devices to use. And they have to have special hardware to tap into it. And they have to have special permission from Amazon's developer program to attach into it. So it's like a low bandwidth version of the Wi-Fi that's in your house. So it can send and receive some data. But it's not traditionally what we think of when we think of free Wi-Fi. It's sort of like – Got it. Right. It's not like city-provided Wi-Fi in the subway station or something like that. Exactly. Okay. Yeah, when you first told me that you were testing this, I thought you were going to be walking around your neighborhood and streaming YouTube videos on your phone and not using data and that that was the point of it. But actually, it is for Amazon's own smart home network. And the idea is if the power goes out, which we've been experiencing a lot here in San Francisco, that – and the Wi-Fi went out, that these would still be connected? That's what the point of this is? Yes, that's one of the points. That is one of the big selling points. Basically it is Amazon's network, right? It's a network that's been built