on the backbone of all of these Amazon-branded smart home products. Those serve as endpoints in the network and they're everywhere, right? However, now it's open to other developers. So if you make a gadget, you can put a special chip in that gadget and make it so they can also attach to the network. So that's really why they wanted us to go out and write about how good the coverage is because they want to sort of send out the message to the world that like, hey, there's this network available you can tap into. So if I want to put my gadget on the network, yes, I can connect to the Internet without really having to set it up because it turns on and if it's programmed to look for a sidewalk signal, it'll see one because I live in a densely populated city and it will already be able to do some connected stuff even though I haven't gone through the setup process yet. So that's one thing, right? It makes like turning these things on and getting them to work much easier. It also allows you to use gadgets that are away from your router. So if you think about something in your backyard, like a solar panel controller or a camera or a moisture sensor in your backyard or in your basement, maybe it can't see your router that well, but it can definitely see the sidewalk signal that's emanating from your next door neighbor's Alexa speaker, which is in the window, right? So it can use the available signal that's sort of ambiently everywhere because everybody owns Amazon and Ring devices to connect to the Internet. So if my Internet goes out and I have a Ring doorbell, my Ring doorbell can use sidewalk to still send me a notification on my phone to tell me that somebody's at my door. And how is your next door neighbor supposed to feel about that? The fact that they might have an Echo or a Ring and perhaps unbeknownst to them, your moisture sensor in your backyard is pulling off of their Wi-Fi signal. I don't even know if that's the best way to describe it. Unbeknownst is absolutely the best word because a lot of people do not know that this network even exists or that they are participating in it. And in fact,